# 8.2 System Design II

## Key Characteristics of Distributed Systems

- Scalability (Horizontal Scaling vs. Vertical Scaling)
- Reliability (Consistency)
- Availability
- Efficiency
- Serviceability or Manageability

## Load Balancing

- LB Locations
    - Between the user and the web server
    - Between web servers and an internal platform layer, like application servers or cache servers
    - Between internal platform layer and database.
- LB Algorithms
    - Least Connection Method
    - Least Response Time Method
    - Least Bandwidth Method
    - Round Robin Method
    - Weighted Round Robin Method
    - IP Hash

## Caching

- Application server cache
- Content Delivery Network (CDN)
- Cache Invalidation
    - Write-through cache
    - Write-around cache
    - Write-back cache
- Cache eviction policies
    - First In First Out (FIFO)
    - Last In First Out (LIFO)
    - Least Recently Used (LRU)
    - Most Recently Used (MRU)
    - Least Frequently Used (LFU)
    - Random Replacement (RR)

## Data Partitioning

- Partitioning Methods
    - Horizontal Partitioning
    - Vertical Partitioning
    - Directory-Based Partitioning
- Partitioning Criteria
    - Key or Hash-based Partitioning
    - List partitioning
    - Round-robin partitioning
    - Composite Partitioning
- Common Problems of Data Partitioning
    - Joins and Denormalization
    - Referential integrity
    - Rebalancing

## Indexes

- **Indexes** provide faster random lookups through the database tables and efficient access of ordered records.
- **Indexes** can be created using one or more columns of a database table.
- **Indexes** can decrease write performance (we not only have to write the data but also have to update the index).

## Proxies

- A **forward proxy** can hide the identity of the client from the server by sending requests on behalf of the client.
- A **reverse proxy** retrieves resources from one or more servers on behalf of a client, thus hides the server’s identity.

## Fault Tolerance

- **Redundancy**: duplication of critical components or functions of a system with the intention of increasing the reliability of the system, usually in the form of a backup or fail-safe, or to improve actual system performance. It removes the single points of failure in the system
- **Replication**: share information to ensure consistency between redundant resources, such as software or hardware components, to improve reliability, fault-tolerance, or accessibility.

## SQL vs. NoSQL

- **SQL** (Relational DB)
    - MySQL, Oracle, MS SQL Server, SQLite, Postgres, and MariaDB
- **NoSQL** (Not Only SQL)
    - Key-Value Stores (Redis, DynamoDB)
    - Document Databases (CouchDB and MongoDB)
    - Wide-Column Databases (Cassandra, HBase)
    - Graph Databases
- Reasons to use SQL
    - Ensure ACID compliance
    - Data is structured and unchanging
- Reasons to use NoSQL
    - Storing large volumes of data that often have little to no structure.
    - Making the most of cloud computing and storage (Scalability!)
    - Rapid development.

## CAP Theorem

- **CAP**
    - **Consistency** (C): All users see the same data at the same time
    - **Availability** (A): System continues to function even with node failures
    - **Partition tolerance** (P): System continues to function even if the communication fails between nodes
- Theorem
    - According to the CAP theorem, any distributed system needs to pick two out of the three properties.
    - In the presence of a network partition, therefore a distributed system must choose either Consistency or Availability.
    - CA: **RDBMS** (not a coherent option)
    - CP: **BigTable**, **HBase**
    - AP: **Dynamo**, **Cassandra**, **CouchDB**

## PACELC Theorem

- **ACID** (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) databases (RDBMS) chose consistency (refuse response if it cannot check with peers)
- **BASE** (Basically Available, Soft-state, Eventually consistent) databases (NoSQL) chose availability (respond with local data without ensuring it is the latest with its peers).
- **PACELC**
    - if there is a partition (P), a distributed system can tradeoff between availability (A) and consistency (C) (same as CAP)
    - else (E), when the system is running normally in the absence of partitions, the system can tradeoff between latency (L) and consistency (C).

## Client Server Interaction

- **Ajax Polling**: the client repeatedly polls (or requests) a server for data. The client makes a request and waits for the server to respond with data. If no data is available, an empty response is returned.
- **HTTP Long Polling**: allows the server to push information to a client whenever the data is available. With Long-Polling, the client requests information from the server exactly as in normal polling, but with the expectation that the server may not respond immediately.
- **WebSockets**: WebSocket provides Full duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. It provides a persistent connection between a client and a server that both parties can use to start sending data at any time.
- **Server-Sent Events (SSEs)**: Under SSEs the client establishes a persistent and long-term connection with the server. The server uses this connection to send data to a client. If the client wants to send data to the server, it would require the use of another technology/protocol to do so.

Reference: https://www.educative.io/courses/grokking-the-system-design-interview