# Bloom Filter

> A Bloom filter is a space-efficient probabilistic data structure that is used to test whether an element is a member of a set. The price for efficiency is that it is probabilistic in nature that means, there might be some False Positive results.

```
INITIAL BITS
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

INSERT X {0, 3, 7}
(1) 0 0 (1) 0 0 0 (1) 0 0

INSERT Y {2, 3, 4}
1 0 (1) (1) (1) 0 0 1 0 0

SEARCH Z {1, 4, 7}
1 (0) 1 1 (1) 0 0 (1) 0 0 <== Probably Present

SEARCH W {1, 5, 6}
1 (0) 1 1 1 (0) (0) 1 0 0 <== Definitely NOT Present
```

Properties
- Unlike a standard hash table, a Bloom filter of a fixed size can represent a set with an arbitrarily large number of elements.
- Bloom filters never generate false negative result
- Adding an element never fails. However, the false positive rate increases steadily as elements are added until all bits in the filter are set to 1, at which point all queries yield a positive result.
- Deleting elements from filter is not possible because, if we delete a single element by clearing bits at indices generated by k hash functions, it might cause deletion of few other elements.

# Disjoint-set (Union-find set)

> A disjoint-set data structure is a data structure that tracks a set of elements partitioned into a number of disjoint (non-overlapping) subsets. It provides near-constant-time operations to add new sets, to merge existing sets, and to determine whether elements are in the same set.

```py
ds = DisjointSet(5)

(0) (1) (2) (3) (4)

ds.union(1, 2)
ds.union(3, 4)

(0) (1) (3)
     |   |
    (2) (4)
```

Leetcode Problems
- [547. Friend Circles](https://leetcode.com/problems/friend-circles/)
- [130. Surrounded Regions](https://leetcode.com/problems/surrounded-regions/)
- [200. Number of Islands](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-islands/)

# LRU Cache

> Discards the least recently used items first. This algorithm requires keeping track of what was used when, which is expensive if one wants to make sure the algorithm always discards the least recently used item.

```
      A    B    C    D    E    F    C    G
--------------------------------------------
[ ]  [A]  [B]  [C]  [D]  [E]  [F]  [C]  [G]
[ ]  [ ]  [A]  [B]  [C]  [D]  [E]  [F]  [C]
[ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [A]  [B]  [C]  [D]  [E]  [F]
[ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [A]  [B]  [C]  [D]  [E]
[ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [ ]  [A]  [B]  [B]  [D]
--------------------------------------------
                              [A]       [B]
```

Properties
- Native Implementation: Hash Table + Doubly LinkedList
- Python API Implementation: `collections.OrderedDict()`
- O(1) lookup
- O(1) update

Leetcode Problems
- [146. LRU Cache](https://leetcode.com/problems/lru-cache/)