# Shortest Path

> Breadth-first search algorithm can only solve the _shortest path_ problem in _unweighted graphs_. But in real life, we often need to find the _shortest path_ in a _weighted graph_.

There are two “single source shortest path” algorithms:
- **Dijkstra's Algorithm** (solve weighted directed graph with non-negative weights).
- **Bellman-Ford Algorithm** (solve weighted directed graph with any weights, including negative weights).

## Dijkstra's algorithm

Dijkstra's Algorithm works on the basis that any subpath `B -> D` of the shortest path `A -> D` between vertices `A` and `D` is also the shortest path between vertices `B` and `D`.

Djikstra used this property in the opposite direction i.e we overestimate the distance of each vertex from the starting vertex. Then we visit each node and its neighbors to find the shortest subpath to those neighbors.

The algorithm uses a greedy approach in the sense that we find the next best solution hoping that the end result is the best solution for the whole problem.

```py
def dijkstra(G, S)
    for each vertex V in G
        distance[V] <- infinite
        previous[V] <- NULL
        If V != S, add V to Priority Queue Q
    distance[S] <- 0

    while Q IS NOT EMPTY
        U <- Extract MIN from Q
        for each unvisited neighbour V of U
            tempDistance <- distance[U] + edge_weight(U, V)
            if tempDistance < distance[V]
                distance[V] <- tempDistance
                previous[V] <- U

    return distance[], previous[]
```

- Time Complexity: `O(E Log V)`
- Space Complexity: `O(V)`

[Programiz: Dijkstra's Algorithm](https://www.programiz.com/dsa/dijkstra-algorithm)

## Bellman-Ford Algorithm

Bellman Ford algorithm is similar to Dijkstra's algorithm but it can work with graphs in which edges can have negative weights. Negative weight edges might seem useless at first but they can explain a lot of phenomena like cashflow, the heat released/absorbed in a chemical reaction, etc.

Negative weight edges can create negative weight cycles i.e. a cycle that will reduce the total path distance by coming back to the same point. Shortest path algorithms like Dijkstra's Algorithm that aren't able to detect such a cycle can give an incorrect result because they can go through a negative weight cycle and reduce the path length.

```py
def bellmanFord(G, S)
  for each vertex V in G
    distance[V] <- infinite
      previous[V] <- NULL
  distance[S] <- 0

  for each vertex V in G
    for each edge (U,V) in G
      tempDistance <- distance[U] + edge_weight(U, V)
      if tempDistance < distance[V]
        distance[V] <- tempDistance
        previous[V] <- U

  for each edge (U,V) in G
    If distance[U] + edge_weight(U, V) < distance[V}
      Error: Negative Cycle Exists

  return distance[], previous[]
```

| Bellman Ford's | Time Complexity |
| -------------- | :-------------: |
| Best Case      | O(E)            |
| Average Case   | O(VE)           |
| Worst Case     | O(VE)           |

[Programiz: Bellman-Ford Algorithm](https://www.programiz.com/dsa/bellman-ford-algorithm)