# Topological Sort

> Topological sort provides a linear sorting based on the required ordering between vertices in directed acyclic graphs (DAG). To be specific, given vertices u and v, to reach vertex v, we must have reached vertex u first. In topological sort, u has to appear before v in the ordering.

- Topological sort only works with graphs that are directed and acyclic.
- There must be at least one vertex in the “graph” with an “in-degree” of 0. If all vertices in the “graph” have a non-zero “in-degree”, then all vertices need at least one vertex as a predecessor. In this case, no vertex can serve as the starting vertex.

## Kahn's Algorithm

Kahn's algorithm is a simple topological sort algorithm can find a topological ordering in `O(V+E)` time.

The intuition behind Kahn's algorithm is to repeatedly remove nodes without any dependencies from the graph and add them to the topological ordering. As nodes without dependencies (and their outgoing edges) are removed from the graph, new nodes without dependencies should become free. We repeat removing nodes without dependencies from the graph until all nodes are processed, or a cycle is discovered.

```py
def findTopologicalOrdering(self, graph: List[List[int]]) -> List[int]:
    n = len(graph)
    inDegrees = [0] * n

    res = []
    queue = collections.deque([u for u in range(n) if inDegrees[u] == 0])
    while queue:
        u = queue.popleft()
        res.append(u)
        for v in graph[u]:
            inDegrees[v] -= 1
            if inDegrees[v] == 0:
                queue.append(v)

    if len(res) != n:
        return []

    return res
```

## Leetcode Problems

- [210. Course Schedule II](https://leetcode.com/problems/course-schedule-ii/)
- [269. Alien Dictionary](https://leetcode.com/problems/alien-dictionary/)
- [310. Minimum Height Trees](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-height-trees/)
- [1136. Parallel Courses](https://leetcode.com/problems/parallel-courses/)
